---
layout: news
title:  "Leeds Regional Node"
date:   2014-01-15 13:18:03
categories: news
--- 

Since we were announced as the ODI Node for Leeds (and the Region) at the end of October, we  have been riding a wave of positive reaction, making new friends, building new connections and  having really interesting conversations about what “The ODI Node” could be. 

Our priority over the next few weeks is to have more of these conversations make more contacts  and listen to the stories from Leeds and the region about what Open Data can really achieve; we will  play them back with what we know is happening across the Open Data community and particularly  the collective intelligence of the ODI and its network of Nodes. 

Many of the discussions have been how people, organisations and businesses can be involved and  help build the Node – our plan is to mirror the ODI membership model and deliver the same things  that the ODI currently does, so that means events, learning, training, start-ups, and providing access  to the approaches and data management tools that being developed. 

Obviously that’s a lot to do, and at the moment we are in start-up mode so we’ll be in bootstrap  mode for a little while – that’s code for we have no money!! , we will have a “Pop-Up” location when  we formally launch and with the enthusiasm already shown, we’ll be on a permanent footing by the  middle of the year. 

So our priorities for the New Year are: 

* Build a membership model alongside the ODI membership model that suits the context of  Leeds and the City Region.
* Create shared value from Open Data - using Civic partnerships - with a start-up and  investment model for acceleration.
* Events - very possibly in collaboration with the other ODI-Nodes in the North of England and  organisations like Leeds Data Thing.
* Training - take the ODI training collateral and use it here. In our discussions so far, three areas of focus have emerged, which are;
* Energy & Environment - particularly in terms of energy saving – we know there are quick  wins in terms of financial outcomes, poverty and communities that we can tell great stories  about.
* Health and Care - Amplify the great work already happening with the Leeds Health  Innovation Lab the NHS and the Health & Medical businesses in the region. 
* Civic Innovation – helping our public institutions with Open-Data , Innovation, creating a  shared value for our communities.  

Finally I’d like to say thanks to all who have offered their support over the last few weeks, and to say  that, if you, your organisation or business would like to play a part in what the ODI could be in Leeds  and the region please get in touch with us. 

Best way is probably twitter [@ODI-Leeds](http://twitter.com/ODI-Leeds) or [@actuatedfutures](http://twitter.com/actuatedfutures), or by email to [paul@actuatedfutures.com](mailto:paul@actuatedfutures.com)